; Porous Materials from Invention to Emerging Applications
;https://www.grc.org/nanoporous-materials-and-their-applications-conference/2019/#

Nanostructured porous polymer membranes synthesized using the cross-linked
inverted hexagonal phase formed by self-assembled lyotropic liquid crystals
(LLCs) show promise for selective separations. The uniform size of the pores
enforce a strict molecular weight cut-off while functional groups densely
occupy the pore interiors and interact with charged and polar solutes.
Unfortunately, we lack the molecular-level understanding necessary in order to
controllably design these membranes for solute-specific separations. In this
work, we observe transport of water, sodium ions and 20 small polar solutes
within the pores of an atomistic molecular model of an LLC membrane. In
general, we observe subdiffusive solute transport behavior characterized by
intermittent hops between lengthy periods of entrapment. Three different
trapping mechanisms give rise to this behavior. First, solutes that drift out
of the pores can become entangled among the dense liquid crystal monomer tails.
Second, solutes can donate hydrogen bonds to the monomer head groups. Third,
solutes can coordinate with sodium counter ions. The degree to which a solute
is affected by each mechanism is dependent on the chemical functionality of the
solute. Using solute trajectories and knowledge of the transport mechanisms, we
have developed a stochastic model that we can use to project the long timescale
behavior of individual solutes. This tool allows us to predict solute diffusion
constants so that we can make direct experimental comparisons to our trends.
The simulation framework we have developed can be used to rapidly design and
screen liquid crystal membranes with the goal of custom designing membranes for
solute-specific separations. 

