# Division of Polymeric Science and Engineering

%MRS: title? Make it clear what you are looking at. 

%MRS: Talk about structural details at the nanoscale.  I think what
  they will find most interesting is using 2D WAXS to find out what
  the possible pores are, and then using the molecular details to find
  out what the pore must be like.

Nanostructured polymer membranes offer the ability to control pore
architecture at the atomic length scale. Lyotropic liquid crystals
(LLCs) are a class of nanostructured materials that can be modified,
assembled and crosslinked into stable membranes with uniform, straight
pores that can perform solute-specific separations. Pore diameters on
the order of 1 nm make LLC membranes well-suited for aqueous
separations such as desalination and biorefinement. 

%MRS: maybe emphasize use of XRAY and MD together to understand the
 nanopore structure.

We use atomistic molecular dynamics simulations in order to understand
the mechanisms of solute transport in these complex self-assembled
systems so that we can design these membranes to achieve specific
separations goals.

%MRS: this stuff is not that interesting; more introduction than
 abstract. Doesn't really describe problems or findings.

Our preliminary results have shown that atomistic simulation produces
metastable structures dependent on one's choice of initial
configuration. It is clear that without an understanding of the
nanoscopic structure of these membranes, we will not be able to
appropriately model the chemical environment present in the real
system. 

%MRS: talk more about using XRAY and MD together.
Fortunately, experimentalists have provided us with detailed
1D and 2D small angle X-ray scattering (SAXS) and wide angle X-ray
scattering (WAXS) data. We calculated the structure factor of various
metastable molecular dynamics configurations as well as simplified
models in order to understand what real space structural features are
responsible for the reciprocal space features that we see in the X-ray
diffraction patterns. We have also examined correlation functions in
real space to assess the degree of ordering in our system and to
compare it to experimentally measured values. Using our approach, we
have been able to construct a model that is maximally consistent with
experimental results and is therefore suitable to be studied in order
to gain insights about solute transport mechanisms.

%MRS: talk about the nature of the pore, how there is not a CLEAN
 pore, I think that will be interesting to them.  Right now, there are
 no real findings. Put in findings (can qualify as preliminary), and
 can discuss difficulties. But have details.

