; Membrane Modeling and Simulation
; https://aiche.confex.com/aiche/2019/webprogrampreliminary/Session41103.html

The uniform size and complex chemical topology of the pores that constitute
cross-linked inverted hexagonal phase lyotropic liquid crystal (LLC) membranes
make them promising for selective separations. We have developed an atomistic
molecular model of an LLC membrane that is maximally consistent with
experimental X-ray diffraction for the purpose of studying small molecule
transport within it. In our most recent work, we characterized transport of
water, sodium ions and 20 small polar solutes within the pores of our model. We
found that the transport rate of a species is dependent not only on molecular
size, but on chemical functionality as well. Electrostatic interactions between
the membrane and solutes provide an interesting diversity of mechanistic
behaviors. In general, all solutes perform intermittent hops between lengthy
periods of entrapment. Three different trapping mechanisms are responsible for
this behavior. First, solutes that drift out of the pore can become entangled
among the dense monomer tails. Second, solutes can donate hydrogen bonds to the
monomer head groups. Third, solutes can coordinate with sodium counter ions.
The degree to which a solute is affected by each mechanism is dependent on the
chemical functionality of the solute. We have used our detailed mechanistic
understanding in order to construct a stochastic model which we can use to
project the long term behavior of the solutes and ultimately predict
selectivity. Using the insights developed in this study, we can begin to think
about how to redesign existing LLC membranes in order to perform
solute-specific separations.
