Periodic, nanostructured porous polymer membranes made from the cross-linked
inverted hexagonal phase of self-assembled lyotropic liquid crystals (LLCs) are
a promising class of materials for selective aqueous separations. The wide
design space available for liquid crystal monomer design facilitates the
creation of a variety of complex chemical topologies with unique selective
preferences. Currently, the mechanisms of selectivity in these membranes are 
poorly understood which has hindered our ability to design them for
solute-specific separations. In this work, we use atomistic molecular dynamics
simulations in order to gain a more complete understanding of nanoscopic
membrane structure and solute dynamics.

First, we ensure that we can properly model the chemical environment within the
pores. We refine the model's structure in order to maximize its consistency
with experimental 1D small angle and 2D wide angle X-ray scattering data. Using
our most experimentally-consistent structural model, we study transport of 20
small polar solutes within the membrane pores. We find that the transport of a
species is dependent not only on molecular size, but on chemical functionality
as well. We uncover three different trapping mechanism which lead to
subdiffusive dynamics. Finally, we explore two different formulations of
stochastic models that can be used to further our mecahnistic understanding and
to project solute behavior on macroscopic timescales. We demonstrate how one
can use these models to estimate flux of a solute across a macroscopic-length
pore and, based on those quantities, the membrane's selectivity towards each
solute. This work helps to connect nanostructure and microscopic
chemically-dependent solute motions that do not follow simple diffusive
behavior with macroscopic membrane performance.

