# Division of Computers in Chemistry

%MRS: moved to the top so we state what is going on.

For the first time, to our knowledge, a lyotropic liquid crystal (LLC)
system is studied atomistically using molecular dynamics simulations.
LLC's are a class of nanostructured materials that can be modified,
assembled and crosslinked into stable membranes with uniform straight
pores that can perform solute specific separations and offer the
ability to control pore architecture at the atomic lengthscale.  Pore
diameters on the order of 1 nm make LLC membranes well-suited for
aqueous separations such as desalination and biorefinement.

We have used an iterative approach of simulation and experiment to
help characterize and reduce the large chemical design space available
for LLC monomer design. A molecular model which is consistent with
experimentally measured structural features and material properties
can provide a link between monomer structure and macroscopic
separation performance. With a clear understanding of mechanisms of
transport in these complex self-assembled systems, one can choose
monomers to achieve specific separation goals.

In our model, we have developed a method to simulate the crosslinking
mechanism, a key step during synthesis. We have also adopted and
compared multiple methods for calculating ionic conductivity from
atomistic simulations. Simulated XRD patterns based on atomic
coordinates generate 1D and 2D simulated XRD patterns containing all
major features present experimentally.

Using these methods to characterize the molecular model, we have
discovered an additional metastable state which may form under certain
experimental conditions. Each configuration gives different structural
properties but persists for 100's of simulated nanoseconds.

%BJC: mention free energy calculations here? It seem that it is
something we will be doing soon and would be of interest to people in
this forum.

%MRS: I don't think it's necessary. It's a poster, it will be
 accepted, so if we do free energy calculations, it can be added
 afterwards.

We have also studied the transport of a range of solutes with various
charges and hydrodynamic radii. We can use this information to draw
correlations between pore structure and selective preferences. These
studies will help guide monomer choice for separation-specific
objectives.  

%BJC: I noticed in the session that there is an NVIDIA GPU poster
award. Do % you think it is worth having anything about how we ran the
simulations?  

%MRS: Couldn't hurt. You should look for other information about what
you need to submit in addition to the poster -- there might be some
other email that you need to send?
