Simulate Lyotropic Liquid Crystal Membranes
===========================================

|pic1| |pic2|

.. |pic1| image:: ./images/toc_image_final.png
      :width: 49 %
.. |pic2| image:: ./images/unitcell.png
      :width: 49 %

Background
----------

Lyotropic liquid crystals (LLC) are amphiphilic molecules that can
self-assemble into nanostructured phases dependent on the amount of water
present in solution. LLC monomers with crosslinkable functional groups can be
polymerized in order to create stable and mechanically robust films that can be
used as separations membranes. 

We are interested in studying the inverted hexagonal (|HII|) and bicontinuous
cubic phases (|QI|) formed by LLC monomers. The hydrophilic pores of
cross-linked nanostructured LLC membranes are uniform in size and contain
interacting functional groups which makes them ideal for selective separations. 

The |HII| phase geometry (top left image) consists of hexagonally packed and
uniform-sized pores. In the presence of water, LLC monomers spontaneously
self-assemble into hexagonal mesophases that are isotropically oriented with
respect to each other. In this state, transport is inherently slow. A fully
aligned |HII| phase membrane with continuous through-pores represents the ideal
geometry for high throughput separations. Aligning the hexagonal mesophases on
a large scale is not trivial. Successful efforts have been made on a small
scale (see [1]_ and [2]_), however more work needs to be done to make this a
viable membrane. Nevertheless, the primary focus of our simulations to date
has been with the |HII| phase because its geometry is simple to model.

The |QI| phase (top right image) consists of a tortuous network of 3D
interconnected pores. This geometry does not require alignment and therefore
has been studied as a separations membrane far more than the |HII| phase. The
high selectivity of these membranes has been studied and applied to complex
waste streams such as hydraulic fracturing flowback water [3]_ [4]_ [5]_. To
date, we have learned to build atomstic unit cells for these systems and we
plan to carry out the same analyses applied to the |HII| system but adapted to
the more complex |QI| geometry.

.. |HII| replace:: H\ :sub:`II`
.. |QI| replace:: Q\ :sub:`I`

Effective use of this repository
--------------------------------

The tools in this repository are intended for studying structure and transport
within |HII| or |QI| phase membranes formed by liquid crystal monomers.

Most of the tools are built using python and are tested to work with output
files generated by molecular simulations run with `GROMACS
<http://www.gromacs.org>`_.  See our full list of :ref:`software-reqs`.

The process of screening an LLC system composed of a given monomer can summarized in three stages:

#. **Parameterization**: In most cases, you will need to build and parameterize monomers before building a full membrane. Instructions and scripts to do this are given in the :ref:`prep` section.

#. **System Construction and Simulation**: Next, you will need to build a unit cell and create input files for GROMACS simulations. See our :ref:`system-setup` section for instructions.

#. **Analysis**: Once your simulations are run, you can conduct :ref:`analysis`.

For convenience, most scripts wrap around a class and can stand alone. Using
the argparse module, one can pass arguments that give instructions on how to
apply the underlying class where all of the real calculations occur.

Note that modules in LLC_Membranes.llclib (see :ref:`llclib`) are an exception
and cannot stand alone. Each module contains a set of functions that are
frequently used in other modules. Any function or class that is used more than
once should be in an appropriate llclib module.

A directory tree would go well here to make importing more intuitive

Publications
------------

Coscia, Benjamin J., Joseph Yelk, Matthew A. Glaser, Douglas L. Gin, Xunda
Feng, and Michael R. Shirts. “Understanding the Nanoscale Structure of Inverted
Hexagonal Phase Lyotropic Liquid Crystal Polymer Membranes.” The Journal of
Physical Chemistry B 123, no. 1 (January 10, 2019): 289–309.
https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcb.8b09944.

Coscia, Benjamin J., and Michael R. Shirts. “Chemically Selective Transport in
a Cross-Linked HII Phase Lyotropic Liquid Crystal Membrane.” The Journal of
Physical Chemistry B, June 27, 2019. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcb.9b04472.

Table of Contents
-----------------
.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1 
   :titlesonly:

   requirements
   prep
   setup
   analysis
   llclib

Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`

References
----------

.. [1] Feng, Xunda, Marissa E. Tousley, Matthew G. Cowan, Brian R. Wiesenauer, Siamak Nejati, Youngwoo Choo, Richard D. Noble, Menachem Elimelech, Douglas L. Gin, and Chinedum O. Osuji. “Scalable Fabrication of Polymer Membranes with Vertically Aligned 1 Nm Pores by Magnetic Field Directed Self-Assembly.” ACS Nano 8, no. 12 (December 23, 2014): 11977–86. https://doi.org/10.1021/nn505037b.

.. [2] Feng, Xunda, Siamak Nejati, Matthew G. Cowan, Marissa E. Tousley, Brian R. Wiesenauer, Richard D. Noble, Menachem Elimelech, Douglas L. Gin, and Chinedum O. Osuji. “Thin Polymer Films with Continuous Vertically Aligned 1 Nm Pores Fabricated by Soft Confinement.” ACS Nano 10, no. 1 (January 26, 2016): 150–58. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.5b06130.

.. [3] Hatakeyama, Evan S., Christopher J. Gabriel, Brian R. Wiesenauer, Jenny L. Lohr, Meijuan Zhou, Richard D. Noble, and Douglas L. Gin. “Water Filtration Performance of a Lyotropic Liquid Crystal Polymer Membrane with Uniform, Sub-1-Nm Pores.” Journal of Membrane Science 366, no. 1–2 (2011): 62–72. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.memsci.2010.09.028.


.. [4] Hatakeyama, Evan S., Brian R. Wiesenauer, Christopher J. Gabriel, Richard D. Noble, and Douglas L. Gin. “Nanoporous, Bicontinuous Cubic Lyotropic Liquid Crystal Networks via Polymerizable Gemini Ammonium Surfactants.” Chemistry of Materials 22, no. 16 (August 24, 2010): 4525–27. https://doi.org/10.1021/cm1013027.
.. [5] Dischinger, Sarah M., James Rosenblum, Richard D. Noble, Douglas L. Gin, and Karl G. Linden. “Application of a Lyotropic Liquid Crystal Nanofiltration Membrane for Hydraulic Fracturing Flowback Water: Selectivity and Implications for Treatment.” Journal of Membrane Science 543, no. Supplement C (December 1, 2017): 319–27. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.memsci.2017.08.028.

